[Music]
emotional intelligence helps people to
communicate with others more effectively
manage their behavior and emotions and
make decisions that leads to the best
results and although this feature
doesn't have any connection with how
smart a person is low emotional
intelligence can create additional
difficulties on a person's way to
success before you get to know about 17
signs of low emotional intelligence hit
subscribe and turn on notifications to
join us on the bright side of life one
having difficulties with understanding
the feelings of other people people with
low emotional intelligence which is also
called low EQ
don't notice or don't understand the
feelings of those around them they can't
grasp why some people may be angry at
them and this inability to understand
the situation makes them annoyed on the
whole the emotions seem to be an
exasperating disadvantage to low EQ
people too blaming others for existing
emotional problems you probably realize
that emotions are just reflections of
what you feel on the inside but people
with low EQ believe that they can blame
others for their emotional state such
people don't want to accept the
responsibility for their feelings well
sometimes it's indeed hard to admit that
nobody but you is in charge of your life
3 considering others overly sensitive
people with low emotional intelligence
may not realize that they're doing
something inappropriate for example they
may be cracking jokes while those around
them mourn or feel depressed and when
low EQ people don't get the reaction
they expect they may decide that others
are being too sensitive it's a big
challenge for people with a lack of
emotional intelligence to interpret the
emotions of other people and as a result
they may misjudge a situation for having
unexpected emotional outbursts one of
the most critical elements of emotional
intelligence is the ability to control
your emotion
unfortunately people whose EQ isn't very
developed tend to lose control over
their reactions it often leads to
overblown and sudden emotional outbursts
five lacking empathy now that you know
low EQ people are unable to understand
the feelings of others that's the reason
why they have a lack of empathy since
they can't catch the nuances of
somebody's emotional state they can't
imagine themselves in this person's
shoes six having difficulties with
keeping friends low EQ people often
create an impression of cold and
uncaring that is the reason why they
have problems with making and keeping
friends close friends are supposed to
give each other emotional support but
those who have a lack of emotional
intelligence aren't able to provide this
7 being unable to deal with emotionally
charged situations powerful emotions can
baffle even high EQ people as for those
who don't have enough emotional
intelligence for them it's often
unbearably hard to handle situations
which are too emotionally charged these
people don't understand what's happening
and can't figure out how to solve the
problem low EQ people prefer to walk
away rather than to deal with all the
emotional turmoil on top of that in
these situations they are particularly
likely to close off and hide their real
emotions deep inside 8 walking around
with a poker face high emotional
intelligence means that you understand
the emotions of other people at the same
time it also suggests the ability to
express your own feelings in such a way
that people around you can identify them
if a person always walks around with us
so to say pokerface and you can never
tell what they are feeling at the moment
it's a clear sign of their low EQ
9 being tone deaf
most people express their emotions not
only through what they say and what
their face shows but also through their
voice and its intonation z' though
who have a lack of emotional
intelligence can't recognize the
emotions of other people from the tone
of their voice that's why if your
colleague can't say that you're
displeased during your phone
conversation you might be dealing with a
person with low emotional intelligence
ten easily getting stressed people with
low emotional intelligence don't show
their feelings and keep them bottled on
the inside as a result some negative
emotions pile up and create a mix of
anxiety tension and stress that's
dangerous because such suppressed
emotions can lead to different health
issues people with high emotional
intelligence can manage their feelings
by tackling different situations in time
but those who don't have this ability
may find other ways of managing their
emotional state
unfortunately these means are not as
effective as finding a solution before a
problem escalates what's worse the waste
people with low emotional intelligence
used to get rid of stress are often
destructive eleven being unable to
specify and named emotions low EQ people
don't have an extended emotional
vocabulary therefore even when they
experience some emotion they're unable
to identify what exactly they feel but
well to be fair only 36% of all people
can do this correctly in any case if you
don't know what you feel because you
can't find the name for this emotion you
can't cope with it right unlabeled
emotions tend to be misunderstood and as
a result people make unwise choices
while one person says that they feel bad
another distinguishes between feeling
anxious worried frustrated sad or
annoyed the more precise the word is the
easier it is to understand why you're
feeling this particular emotion and deal
with it 12 being quick to make
assumptions people who don't have high
EQ tend to jump to conclusions and make
assumptions without collecting all the
necessary information to prove their
point they use facts which support their
position and ignore anything that proves
the contrary
even when they aren't right they don't
change their mind and argue heatedly to
support their opinion as for emotionally
intelligent people they try to suppress
their first negative reaction to some
ideas they know that emotions shouldn't
rule their decisions these people think
the situation over and look for
arguments and counter-arguments in other
words they do everything to be objective
thirteen being easily offended and
holding grudges if you have an
acquaintance you need to tiptoe around
this person might have low emotional
intelligence the problem is that these
people can't draw a line between
humiliation and humor that's why they
often mix these things up and take
friendly jokes for mockery besides low
EQ people tend to keep inside negative
emotions and grudges against others
these feelings pile up and add to the
stress of everyday life this is the
problem that people with high emotional
intelligence try to avoid at all costs
14 feeling misunderstood low EQ people
often find it hard to figure out how to
express themselves clearly this can lead
to an unpleasant feeling of being
misunderstood people with high emotional
intelligence may have this problem as
well but
they know how and when to change their
approach to explain their idea more
explicitly 15 getting into a lot of
arguments do you know anybody that seems
to argue with literally everybody their
colleagues family members friends and
even strangers on the street the chances
are high that this person has low
emotional intelligence such people often
participate in disputes and heated
discussions the thing is that since they
don't realize how other people feel they
pick up fights without considering the
emotional state of those around them 16
downplaying the importance of emotions
people with low EQ may know that they
are somehow different from others that's
why they frequently try to trivialize
emotions and downplay their role in our
life a typical statement which you can
hear from a low EQ person is that the
only important things in life are sharp
mind and calm logic at the same time you
should remember that emotions help you
to build functional relationships with
other people and communicate your ideas
and opinions but that's not all
surprisingly emotional intelligence is
crucial for productive thinking
especially in critical or risky
situations 17 being unaware of emotional
triggers people with high EQ typically
know their triggers these are things
that can provoke particular emotions and
make people act hastily when you know
which words and actions can trigger some
negative reaction in you you'll try to
avoid some situations but low EQ people
can't predict their own response to
particular circumstances therefore they
can't avoid unpleasant consequences have
you ever noticed these or other signs of
low emotional intelligence and people
who surround you if so write about your
experience in the comments section below
remember to hit the like button share
this video with your friends and
subscribe to the channel to join us on
the bright side of life
[Music]